Within our notes, we have saved the Block Data Model.
This is a great start to our project goal of constructing a simple private block chain.
Next, we will need it to implement our block data model.
To kick things off, let's create
our JavaScript file to start the creation of our private block chain.
Let's use touch to create a new file.
For our JavaScript file,
let's go ahead and call this simple chain.
So, we'll type in the terminal, touch simpleChain.js.
At this point, we know our data model will be reuse.
JavaScript provides many methods to construct a reusable object for us.
For example, we will utilize classes.
The class syntax does not introduce a new object oriented inherent model to JavaScript.
It purely provide syntax sugar.
Our first step is to find our block class,
also known as class declaration.
So, to do that, let's jump in to simple chain to construct our block class.
On the left-hand side of your window,
also known as the left panel,
you should see simpleChain list.
Double-click on simpleChain.js to open it.
Perfect. Now, on our top panel within our window,
we have notes and we have simpleChain.js.
So, within simpleChain.js, let's go ahead and start constructing our block class,
class Block, and yeah,
that's pretty much what a class looks like, right?
Nothing fancy here.
Next, we want to establish a class constructor,
which is a special method for creating and initializing an object created with a class.
For each class, only one constructor can be created.
Our block constructor will initialize our block object.
So, let's go ahead and put that into play.
Constructor and we have no option for the constructor at this point in time.
All right. To keep things tidy,
I'm just going to go ahead and press tab to provide some indentation.
Within our constructor bracket,
I'm just going to add a space because I already know that we're going to want
to establish variables within our constructor.
Matter of fact, next, let's go ahead,
and navigate back to our notes,
and copy our block chain model.
We'll copy our block chain data model.
Then, what we're going to do is paste that within our constructor.
Next, let's go ahead and clean things up a little bit.
We don't need the open and close brackets
since we already have that within our constructor.
We're going to delete those, go ahead,
and highlight our variables,
and provide an indentation.
Now that we have our data model within our constructor,
let's configure our constructor define class variables.
This is also known as scope.
Our current scope is the class Block.
When you define scope variables,
in our case, we'll change the hash,
height, body, time, and previousblockhash to variables within our scope.
To do that, we're going to simply clean up our variable and put in this.
This just means this scope and the scope is our block.
So, we are going to do that for each of our variables.
Great. That looks much better.
Let's modify our constructor to support construction
on variable option for block body called data.
So, here's our constructor.
Within it, let's define a variable called data.
Once we construct a new block,
we want to go ahead and store data within the block body.
So, let's go ahead, and remove our array bracket right here,
and put in our constructors variable called data.
At this point, let's test our block class.
Within a terminal session,
type node to enter node environment.
Go ahead, and copy our block class,
and paste it within our node terminal session.
Let's go ahead and press enter.
We have a response undefined.
That's because our class has been created,
yet it has not been defined yet.
To use the block class,
we can assign it a variable or call it directly.
Let's test directly, testing various data options.
Remember, at this point,
our class constructor only supports one variable called data.
To test, we simply call a new object by typing new,
followed by the class name along with constructor options for data variable.
So, to do that, we're simply going to type in new, Block.
Then, within the Block,
we're going to have "Some Data".
Now, if I press enter,
we're going to get a response that a new block object was created and you'll
notice that some data was passed right along to the body of our block.
Wonderful. Now, let's go ahead and test with some different type of data like an array.
So, I just press the up arrow to repeat the last line.
This time, let's just go ahead and put in our array.
Here, we'll just test various options.
Sure enough, that array pass right on through to our body.
Well, we can do the same thing with an object,
and I'm sure that most of you already have this down,
and very familiar with defining variables with new objects,
but it's nice to see them in action.
Great. At this point in time,
you have copied a block data model.
Modify the block data model to suit our private block chain needs.
We then created a simpleChain.js file with a block class that has a constructor,
that shapes the variables for the class, for our new block.